Automation menu - base PR (#2593)
astronomer/docs: astro/deployment-file-reference.md

---
sidebar_label: 'Deployment file reference'
title: 'Deployment file reference'
id: deployment-file-reference
description: View all possible values that you can include in a Deployment file when managing Deployments as code.
---

> After you create an Astro Deployment, you can use the Astro CLI to create a file that contains its unique configurations represented as code. That includes worker queues, environment variables, Astro Runtime version, and more. You can use Deployment files to manage Deployments programmatically on Astro.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you create an Astro Deployment, you can use the Astro CLI to create a Deployment file that contains its unique configurations represented as code. That includes worker queues, environment variables, Astro Runtime version, and more. You can use Deployment files to manage Deployments programmatically on Astro.
```

When you [inspect a Deployment](cli/astro-deployment-inspect.md) to generate a Deployment file, its current configuration is generated as a YAML _Deployment file_. The file includes the name, description, and metadata that is unique to the Deployment.

> A _Deployment template file_ is different from the _Deployment file_. A template file does not have the `metadata` and `environment_variables` section, and the `name` and `description` fields are empty. Deployment template files are used to create new Deployments where as a Deployment file of an existing Deployment can be used to update its configuration. To create a Deployment template file in YAML format, run `astro deployment inspect <your-deployment-id> --template > your-deployment.yaml`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A _Deployment template file_ is different from the _Deployment file_. A template file does not have the `metadata` and `environment_variables` section, and the `name` and `description` fields are empty. Deployment template files are used to create new Deployments, while a Deployment file of an existing Deployment can be used to update its configuration. To create a Deployment template file in YAML format, run `astro deployment inspect <your-deployment-id> --template > your-deployment.yaml`.
```

> A _Deployment template file_ is different from the _Deployment file_. A template file does not have the `metadata` and `environment_variables` section, and the `name` and `description` fields are empty. Deployment template files are used to create new Deployments, while a Deployment file of an existing Deployment can be used to update its configuration. To create a Deployment template file in YAML format, run `astro deployment inspect <your-deployment-id> --template > your-deployment.yaml`.

Reviewer 2: This is great

        runtime_version: 8.7.0
        dag_deploy_enabled: false
        ci_cd_enforcement: false
        scheduler_size: small
        is_high_availability: false
        executor: CeleryExecutor
        scheduler_au: 10
        scheduler_count: 1
        cluster_name: us-central1
        workspace_name: least-permission
        deployment_type: HOSTED_SHARED
        cloud_provider: gcp
        region: us-central1
    worker_queues:
        - name: default
          max_worker_count: 10
          min_worker_count: 0
          worker_concurrency: 5
          worker_type: a5
    metadata:
        deployment_id: clkcbz5d01458926ewbjzubt3fx
        workspace_id: clk7zoqbf00f901hka4c66q2d
        cluster_id: us-central1
        release_name: N/A
        airflow_version: 2.6.3
        current_tag: 8.7.0
        status: CREATING
        created_at: 2023-07-21T08:40:02.531Z
        updated_at: 2023-07-21T08:40:02.532Z
        deployment_url: cloud.astronomer.io/clk7zoqbf00f901hka4c66q2d/deployments/clkcbz5d01458926ewbjzubt3fx/analytics
        webserver_url: org.astronomer.run/dzubt3fx
        workload_identity: astro-native-magnify-8566@proj.iam.gserviceaccount.com
```

> See the following topics to learn about each section in the file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following sections describe each section in the file.
```
Just a convention thing - `topic` sometimes refers to individual pages instead of subsections or sections on. page.

> ### `deployment.environment_variables`

Reviewer 2: Worth re-pasting the env vars section part of the file?

Author: Doing that for each section would create a lot of bloat, I think it's better to show in the context of the whole file.

You can create, update, or delete environment variables in the `environment_variables` section of the template file. This is equivalent to configuring environment variables in the **Variables** page of a Deployment in the Cloud UI.

When you inspect a Deployment, the value of any secret environment variables will not appear in the template file. To set any new or existing environment variables as secret in the file, specify `is_secret: true` next to the key and value. 

> If you commit a template file to a GitHub repository, you should not add secret environment variables in the file. Instead, add them manually in the Cloud UI. This ensures that you do not commit secret values to a version control tool in plain-text.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you commit a template file to a GitHub repository, do not add secret environment variables in the file. Instead, add them manually in the Cloud UI. This ensures that you do not commit secret values to a version control tool in plain-text.
```

:::caution  

When you add environment variables using a Deployment file, you must provide a `value` for your environment variable. Leaving this value blank or as an empty string (`""`) will cause the `astro deployment create` command to fail.

:::

### `deployment.configuration`

The `configuration` section contains all of the basic settings that you can configure from the Deployment **Details** page in the Cloud UI. See:

- [Create a Deployment](create-deployment.md#create-a-deployment).
- [Update a Deployment name and description](configure-deployment-resources.md#update-a-deployment-name-and-description).
- [Scheduler resources](configure-deployment-resources.md#scheduler-resources).

### `deployment.worker_queues`

> The `worker_queues` section defines the [worker queues](configure-worker-queues.md) for a Deployment. If you don't enter specific values for the `default` worker queue for a Deployment with CeleryExecutor, default values based on the worker types available on your cluster are applied. This section is not applicable to Deployments running with the Kubernetes executor. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `worker_queues` section defines the [worker queues](configure-worker-queues.md) for a Deployment. If you don't enter specific values for the `default` worker queue for a Deployment with CeleryExecutor, default values based on the worker types available on your cluster are applied.

This section is not applicable to Deployments running with the Kubernetes executor. 
```

```yaml
deployment:
    environment_variables:
        - is_secret: false
          key: PROJECT_NAME
          updated_at: "2023-06-22T14:02:26.281Z"
          value: test_project
        - is_secret: true
          key: API_KEY
          updated_at: "2023-06-22T14:02:27.892Z"
          value: ""
    configuration:
        name: test
        description: ""
        runtime_version: 8.7.0
        dag_deploy_enabled: false
        ci_cd_enforcement: false
        scheduler_size: small
        is_high_availability: false
        executor: CeleryExecutor
        scheduler_au: 10
        scheduler_count: 1
        cluster_name: us-central1
        workspace_name: least-permission
        deployment_type: HOSTED_SHARED
        cloud_provider: gcp
        region: us-central1
    worker_queues:
        - name: default
          max_worker_count: 10
          min_worker_count: 0
          worker_concurrency: 5
          worker_type: a5
    metadata:
        deployment_id: clkcbz5d01458926ewbjzubt3fx
        workspace_id: clk7zoqbf00f901hka4c66q2d
        cluster_id: us-central1
        release_name: N/A
        airflow_version: 2.6.3
        current_tag: 8.7.0

>         status: CREATING

Author: ```suggestion
        status: CREATING
        workloadIdentity: astro-release-name@provider-account.iam.gserviceaccount.com
```

```yaml
deployment:
    environment_variables:
        - is_secret: false
          key: PROJECT_NAME
          updated_at: "2023-06-22T14:02:26.281Z"
          value: test_project
        - is_secret: true
          key: API_KEY
          updated_at: "2023-06-22T14:02:27.892Z"
          value: ""
    configuration:
        name: test
        description: ""
        runtime_version: 8.7.0
        dag_deploy_enabled: false
        ci_cd_enforcement: false
        scheduler_size: small
        is_high_availability: false
        executor: CeleryExecutor
        scheduler_au: 10
        scheduler_count: 1
        cluster_name: us-central1
        workspace_name: least-permission
        deployment_type: HOSTED_SHARED
        cloud_provider: gcp
        region: us-central1
    worker_queues:
        - name: default
          max_worker_count: 10
          min_worker_count: 0
          worker_concurrency: 5
          worker_type: a5
    metadata:
        deployment_id: clkcbz5d01458926ewbjzubt3fx
        workspace_id: clk7zoqbf00f901hka4c66q2d
        cluster_id: us-central1
        release_name: N/A
        airflow_version: 2.6.3
        current_tag: 8.7.0
        status: CREATING

>         workloadIdentity: astro-release-name@provider-account.iam.gserviceaccount.com

Author: ```suggestion
```
